[IMP] accounting: restructure avalara doc and add avalara direct (#18465)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/taxes/avalara.rst

   United States, Canada, and Brazil. This means the :ref:`fiscal country
   <accounting/avalara/fiscal_country>` of a database can only be set to the :doc:`United States
   <../../fiscal_localizations/united_states>`, :doc:`Canada <../../fiscal_localizations/canada>`,
   or :doc:`Brazil <../../fiscal_localizations/brazil>`.

*AvaTax* takes into account location-based tax rates for each state, county, and city. It improves
remittance accuracy by paying close attention to laws, rules, jurisdiction boundaries, and special
circumstances (like tax holidays and product exemptions). Companies who integrate with *AvaTax*
can maintain control of tax-calculations in-house with this simple :abbr:`API (application
programming interface)` integration.

.. important::
   Some limitations exist in Odoo while using AvaTax for tax calculation:

   - AvaTax uses the company address by default. To use the warehouse address, enable :ref:`Allow
     Ship Later <pos/shop/ship>` in the **POS** app settings.
   - Excise tax is **not** supported. This includes tobacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other
     specific industries.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax

>    <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US>`_

Reviewer: I think the link should be this https://community.avalara.com/support/s/resources?language=en_US OR https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=jec1667533227433.html&_LANG=enus @dade-odoo  . The previous one didn't link me to results.

     - ✅
     - ✅
   * - Annual Transaction Limit
     - 5,000
     - Unlimited Custom
   * - 1st tier Support by
     - Odoo
     - Avalara
   * - Avalara Direct Support
     - Limited
     - ✅
   * - Return Prep & Filing
     - ⚠️ Add-on only
     - ⚠️ Add-on only
   * - Tax Remittance
     - ⚠️ Add-on only
     - ⚠️ Add-on only

.. _accounting/avalara/included:

Avalara Included
----------------

*Avalara Included* is an affordable in-app tax calculation service designed for small and
medium-sized businesses with essential tax compliance needs. Built on *Avalara's AvaTax* platform,
*Avalara Included* integrates with Odoo to provide real-time, region-specific tax calculations for
sales, purchases, and invoices.

Available for databases/companies with locations in the United States and Canada, *Avalara Included*
automatically calculates precise tax rates at the state, county, and city levels. The service
continuously accounts for changing tax laws, jurisdiction boundaries, and special circumstances such
as tax holidays and product exemptions to help improve remittance accuracy and simplify tax
compliance processes.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax

>    <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US>`_

Reviewer: Same here:
I think the link should be this https://community.avalara.com/support/s/resources?language=en_US OR https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=jec1667533227433.html&_LANG=enus @dade-odoo . The previous one didn't link me to results.

additional email configuration is required in Odoo.

.. important::
   It is at this point that :ref:`IAP credits <accounting/avalara/included-iap>` must be
   purchased to continue using the *AvaTax* engine.

.. _accounting/avalara/direct:

Avalara Direct
--------------

*Avalara Direct* is an in-app tax calculation service designed for mid-market and enterprise
businesses with a high volume of transactions (5000+ per year) and more complex needs. Built on
*Avalara's AvaTax* engine, *Avalara Direct* integrates with Odoo to provide real-time,
region-specific tax calculations for sales, purchases, and invoices.

Available for databases/companies with locations in the United States and Canada, *Avalara Direct*
automatically calculates precise tax rates at the state, county, and city levels. The service
continuously accounts for changing tax laws, jurisdiction boundaries, and special circumstances such
as tax holidays and product exemptions to help improve remittance accuracy and simplify tax
compliance processes. Support for *Avalara Direct* is provided directly by Avalara.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax

>    <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US>`_

Reviewer: Same here: I think the link should be this https://community.avalara.com/support/s/resources?language=en_US OR https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=jec1667533227433.html&_LANG=enus @dade-odoo . The previous one didn't link me to results.

   integration. Make sure to update these apps with the new license key.

If this will be the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made
with *AvaTax* and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.

If this is an additional license key, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There is
**only** one license key associated with each of the Avalara sandbox and production accounts.

.. warning::
   Copy this key to a safe place. It is strongly encouraged to back up the license key for
   future reference. This key **cannot** be retrieved after leaving this screen.

.. _accounting/avalara/credentials:

Odoo AvaTax settings
********************

To integrate the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` with Odoo, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings` section and scroll to the
:guilabel:`Taxes` section.

To activate *AvaTax* on the database, tick the checkbox to the left of the :guilabel:`AvaTax`
settings. This is a quick, convenient way to activate and deactivate *AvaTax* tax calculation on the
Odoo database.

.. image:: avalara/avalara-direct-settings.png
   :alt: Configure AvaTax settings

> Next, select the :guilabel:`Environment` in which the company wishes to use *AvaTax* in. It can

Reviewer: We're missing a place to state that the Avalara Direct integration method needs to be selected (we mention this in the Included section).

Author: Good catch! :)

     - `account_avatax_geolocalize`
     - This module includes the features required for integration of *AvaTax* into geo-localization
       in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`
     - `account_avatax_sale`
     - Includes the information needed for tax calculation on sales orders in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for Inventory`
     - `account_avatax_stock`
     - Includes tax calculation in Odoo Inventory.
   * - :guilabel:`Amazon/Avatax Bridge`
     - `sale_amazon_avatax`
     - Includes tax calculation features between the *Amazon Connector* and Odoo.

If it has not been installed already, :ref:`install <general/install>` the module labeled
:guilabel:`Avatax` (`account_avatax`). Doing so installs the following modules:

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: (`account_avatax`)
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: (`account_avatax_sale`)
- :guilabel:`Avatax for Inventory`: (`account_avatax_stock`)

Should *AvaTax* be needed for geo-localization or with the *Amazon Connector*, :ref:`install
<general/install>` those modules individually.

.. seealso::
   For localization specific *AvaTax* instructions, view the following :doc:`fiscal localization
   <../../fiscal_localizations>` documentation:

>    - :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations/canada`

Reviewer: I don't think we have AvaTax-specific info for the US and CA localizations (it is this documentation). Should we keep this section or rephrase it to include more info regarding localization, visit these?

Author: Good point, I've changed it so it doesn't refer to more information on AvaTax but more information on the localizations themselves.

:show-content:

===================
Avalara integration
===================

Avalara's *AvaTax* is a cloud-based tax software. Integrating *AvaTax* with Odoo provides real-time
and region-specific sales tax calculations when users sell and invoice items in Odoo. *AvaTax* tax
calculation is supported for customers in every United Nations charted country, including

> inter-border transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for inter-border transactions.
```
(since inter-border transactions are not a country)

.. important::
   While the *AvaTax* calculation is supported for *customers* around the world, *AvaTax* is only
   available for integration with *databases/companies* that have locations in the United States,

>    Canada, and Brazil. This means the :ref:`fiscal country <accounting/avalara/fiscal_country>` of a

Reviewer 2: stupid question, but I noticed we mention Brazil here, and in the whole Available integrations and Odoo configuration sections, we just mention the US + Canada; is this intended? are those integrations not available for Brazil then?

Author: Brazil's integration is different and the details are on the Brazil page specifically. What do you think of adding a note after this important block to say as much?

Reviewer 2: Yes I think we should mention it!

   database can only be set to the :doc:`United States <../../fiscal_localizations/united_states>`,
   :doc:`Canada <../../fiscal_localizations/canada>`, or :doc:`Brazil

>    <../../fiscal_localizations/brazil>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   available for integration with *databases/companies* whose :ref:`fiscal country
<accounting/avalara/fiscal_country>` is set to the :doc:`United States
<../../fiscal_localizations/united_states>`, :doc:`Canada <../../fiscal_localizations/canada>`, or
:doc:`Brazil <../../fiscal_localizations/brazil>`.
```
or something similar but I think 1) grouping the 2 sentences makes sense and 2) the second sentence as is is misleading and would probably need something along the lines of "to integrate with avatax" to be 100% accurate (but then, repetitions, so see point 1)

Author: Yes, thank you. This part was bothering me but I didn't have a great solution so I left it.

*AvaTax* takes into account location-based tax rates for each state, county, and city. It improves
remittance accuracy by paying close attention to laws, rules, jurisdiction boundaries, and special
circumstances (like tax holidays and product exemptions). Companies who integrate with *AvaTax*
can maintain control of tax-calculations in-house with this simple :abbr:`API (application

> programming interface)` integration.

Reviewer 2: not sure the second sentence is realy needed? if you think so, I'd write *tax calculations*, without the hyphen

.. important::

>    Some limitations exist in Odoo while using AvaTax for tax calculation:

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this sentence and just keep the 2 list items in the admonition

   - AvaTax uses the company address by default. To use the warehouse address, enable :ref:`Allow
     Ship Later <pos/shop/ship>` in the **POS** app settings.
   - Excise tax is **not** supported. This includes tobacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other
     specific industries.

.. seealso::

>    Avalara's support documents: `Avalara AvaTax overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   `Avalara's support documents

   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=jec1667533227433.html&_LANG=enus>`_

.. _accounting/avalara/integrations:

Available integrations
======================

For users in the United States and Canada, there are two options for AvaTax integration:

> - Avalara Included: An affordable In-App purchase service designed for SMBs with essential tax

Reviewer 2: should we add a doc link to the IAP doc here already (I know we have it a bit later but I think it'd be helpful here as well?)?

  calculation needs.

> 

Reviewer 2: you can remove this empty line

     - Odoo IAP
     - Avalara Direct
   * - Odoo Technical Support
     - ✅
     - ✅
   * - Annual Transaction Limit
     - 5,000
     - Unlimited Custom
   * - 1st tier Support by
     - Odoo
     - Avalara
   * - Avalara Direct Support
     - Limited
     - ✅
   * - Return Prep & Filing
     - ⚠️ Add-on only
     - ⚠️ Add-on only
   * - Tax Remittance
     - ⚠️ Add-on only
     - ⚠️ Add-on only

.. _accounting/avalara/included:

Avalara Included
----------------

*Avalara Included* is an affordable in-app tax calculation service designed for small and
medium-sized businesses with essential tax compliance needs. Built on *Avalara's AvaTax* platform,
*Avalara Included* integrates with Odoo to provide real-time, region-specific tax calculations for
sales, purchases, and invoices.

Available for databases/companies with locations in the United States and Canada, *Avalara Included*
automatically calculates precise tax rates at the state, county, and city levels. The service
continuously accounts for changing tax laws, jurisdiction boundaries, and special circumstances such
as tax holidays and product exemptions to help improve remittance accuracy and simplify tax

> compliance processes.

Reviewer 2: I think we could remove the parts that are already mentionned on line 20-24 and change the first sentence accordingly:

```suggestion
*Avalara Included* is available for databases/companies with locations in the United States and Canada.
```

.. seealso::
   `Avalara's support documents
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/resources?language=en_US>`_

.. important::
   Businesses that exceed 5,000 transactions annually must instead use an
   :ref:`accounting/avalara/direct` plan to ensure uninterrupted service at higher transaction
   volumes. To migrate from *Avalara Included* to *Avalara Direct*, speak with your account manager.

.. note::
   In :doc:`multicompany environments <../../../general/companies/multi_company>`, *Avalara
   Included* credentials cannot be shared between companies. Instead, :ref:`create a unique Avalara
   Included account <accounting/avalara/included-create>` with a unique email address for each

>    individual company of the database.

Reviewer 2: Should we move this to the important note above instead?

.. _accounting/avalara/included-iap:

In-App purchase credits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Avalara Included* requires users to purchase credits on the `Odoo IAP page
<https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/865>`_.

One credit is consumed every time an invoice or credit note is posted with an *Avatax* fiscal

> position. Select the package that best fits the demand, based on the estimated transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
position. Select the package that best fits the demand, based on the estimated number of transactions.
```
?

.. _accounting/avalara/included-config:

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Avalara Included* is available both for Odoo users who do not yet have an Avalara account and need
to :ref:`create <accounting/avalara/included-create>` one and for Odoo users with an existing
Avalara account that they would like to :ref:`migrate <accounting/avalara/included-migrate>` to the
*Avalara Included* plan.

.. _accounting/avalara/included-create:

Create an Avalara Included account
**********************************

.. important::
   The Avalara account activation **must** be done on the production database. If the account is

>    created from a sandbox database that does not have an associated valid enterprise account, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   created from a test database that does not have an associated valid enterprise account, the
```
since we're talking about odoo as far as i understand?

   following error message may appear:

   `Odoo was unable to register with the AvaTax proxy for My US Company INVALID_DBUUID - No valid

>    enterprise contract!`

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't mention the exact error message like this and instead just mention the consequence directly in the text.

> To activate and use the *Avalara Included* feature, first navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting -->

Reviewer 2: From what I understand, you can't see the settings unless the Avatax module is installed, correct? but then we only talk about module installation in the Odoo configuration section ... 🙈 or am I missing something?

Author: You're absolutely right. Do you think we should remove the `Module installation` section entirely or is there a specific place you think we could move it to?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure, but if the module isn't automatically installed with the corresponding localization packages, I think we should mention it, probably here since (if it isn't installed automatically), that's going to be the first step (otherwise people won't even see the settings, right?).

Configuration --> Settings`. Then, in the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, enable the :guilabel:`AvaTax`
checkbox.

.. image:: avalara/avalara-included.png
   :alt: The AvaTax settings in Odoo's Accounting app.

Next, select :guilabel:`Avalara Included` as the account type and enter a valid email address. This
email address is used to link the company's information to the *Avalara Included* account.

After the information has been entered, click :icon:`fa-plug` :guilabel:`Connect to Avalara
Included` to establish the connection between the Odoo database and the new Avalara account.

.. important::
   As part of the account creation, `Avalara's terms and conditions <https://legal.avalara.com/>`_
   must be accepted.

After accepting the terms and conditions, the Avalara account is created and an email is
automatically sent to the associated email address. Follow the instructions in the email to activate

> the account by creating a password and registering in the Avalara Portal.

Reviewer 2: I'd use a numbered list for these instructions here for clarity/readability (and remove all unnecessary phrases (*next*, *after the information has been entered*, etc.) or add them as individual steps (e.g., for accepting the terms and conditions --> then remove the important note, it's just another step imo)

Test connection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After creating an *Avalara Included* account, click :guilabel:`Test connection`. This ensures the
email added in the :guilabel:`AvaTax Portal Email` field is correct and a connection is made between
Odoo and the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)`.

Sync parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Upon finishing the configuration and settings of the *AvaTax* section, click the :guilabel:`Sync

> Parameters` button. This action synchronizes the exemption codes from *AvaTax*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Parameters` button to synchronize the exemption codes from *AvaTax*.
```

transactions, including invoices and credit notes, are eligible to migrate their account plan to
*Avalara Included*.

.. important::
   Migrating from *Avalara Direct* to *Avalara Included* changes the Avalara account from a monthly
   contract model to an in-app purchase model, where transaction credits can be purchased based on
   volume. First-level support is also transferred to Odoo.

To begin, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`. In the
:guilabel:`Taxes` section, under :guilabel:`AvaTax`, verify that the :guilabel:`Integration Method`
is set to :guilabel:`Avalara Direct`. In the :guilabel:`Environment` field, select
:guilabel:`Production`. Confirm that the :guilabel:`API ID` and :guilabel:`API KEY` are correctly
configured. Click :icon:`fa-plug` :guilabel:`Migrate to Avalara Included`.

After the button is clicked, a confirmation message appears outlining the changes to Avalara
services and pricing before proceeding with the migration. Review the differences between each
integration carefully before confirming the migration.

Once the migration is complete, a confirmation message appears indicating that the account was

> successfully migrated to *Avalara Included*.

Reviewer 2: Same as above, I'd put this in a numbered list and rephrase accordingly

Because the migration process uses the same email address associated with the *Avalara Direct*
account, access to the *Avalara* portal remains available with the existing email address. No

> additional email configuration is required in Odoo.

Reviewer 2: I think this should go in a note

.. important::
   It is at this point that :ref:`IAP credits <accounting/avalara/included-iap>` must be

>    purchased to continue using the *AvaTax* engine.

Reviewer 2: I'd change the first part of the sentence to something like *Once the migration is complete* or  *Once the account plan has been migrated to ...*

.. _accounting/avalara/direct:

Avalara Direct
--------------

*Avalara Direct* is an in-app tax calculation service designed for mid-market and enterprise
businesses with a high volume of transactions (5000+ per year) and more complex needs. Built on
*Avalara's AvaTax* engine, *Avalara Direct* integrates with Odoo to provide real-time,
region-specific tax calculations for sales, purchases, and invoices.

Available for databases/companies with locations in the United States and Canada, *Avalara Direct*
automatically calculates precise tax rates at the state, county, and city levels. The service
continuously accounts for changing tax laws, jurisdiction boundaries, and special circumstances such
as tax holidays and product exemptions to help improve remittance accuracy and simplify tax

> compliance processes. Support for *Avalara Direct* is provided directly by Avalara.

Reviewer 2: [Same as for Avalara Included about repetitions](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/18465/changes#r3497663717); just keep the first part of the first sentence and the last sentence.

Author: What specifically do you mean by "the first part of the first line?"

.. seealso::
   `Avalara's support documents
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/resources?language=en_US>`_

.. note::
   Most small and medium-sized businesses should instead use :ref:`accounting/avalara/included`.
   Existing *Avalara Direct* users with fewer than 5,000 annual transactions can :ref:`migrate to
   Avalara Included <accounting/avalara/included-migrate>`.

.. _accounting/avalara/direct-config:

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _accounting/avalara/direct-create-account:

Create an account
*****************

To use *AvaTax*, an account with Avalara is required for the setup. If one has not been set up yet,

> connect with Avalara to purchase a license: `Avalara: Let's Talk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`connect with Avalara to purchase a license
```

   :ref:`Odoo setup <accounting/avalara/credentials>`. In Odoo, this number is the :guilabel:`API
   ID`.

Then, `create a basic company profile <https://www.odoo.com/r/2k0>`_.

.. _accounting/avalara/direct-create-basic-company-profile:

Create a basic company profile
******************************

Collect essential business details for the next step: locations where tax is collected,
products/services sold (and their sales locations), and customer tax exemptions, if applicable.
Follow the Avalara documentation for creating a basic company profile:

#. `Add company information
   <https://www.odoo.com/r/XZDW>`_.
#. `Tell us where the company collects and pays tax
   <https://www.odoo.com/r/E6g>`_.
#. `Verify jurisdictions and activate the company
   <https://www.odoo.com/r/NIy>`_.
#. `Add other company locations for location-based filing
   <https://www.odoo.com/r/GF4>`_.
#. `Add a marketplace to the company profile
   <https://www.odoo.com/r/QA5>`_.

.. _accounting/avalara/direct-connect-avalara:

Connect to Avalara
******************

After creating the basic company profile in Avalara, connect Avalara and Odoo. This step links Odoo

> and Avalara bidirectionally.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the second sentence, not needed imo

Author: I do think it's important to mention that the link is bidirectional, but I agree with not liking the "this step" structure. What about

> After creating the basic company profile in Avalara, connect Avalara and Odoo to create a bidirectional link.

Or I'm open to other suggestions - maybe there's a better place to mention that this link is bidirectional?

Navigate to either Avalara's `sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment. This will depend on which type of Avalara account the

> company would like to integrate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to either Avalara's `sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment, depending on which type of Avalara account you wish to integrate.
```

.. seealso::
   `Sandbox vs production environments in Avalara
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/hxd9079947903116/page/hvk7450989081223.html>`_.

Log in to create the :guilabel:`License Key`. Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> License and API
Keys`. In the :guilabel:`License key and client secrets` tab, click :guilabel:`Generate License
Key`.

.. important::
   A warning appears stating: `If your business app is connected to Avalara solutions, the
   connection will be broken until you update the app with the new license key. This action cannot

>    be undone.`

Reviewer 2: same as above about the error message; i'd include the consequence (worded differenly) in the text

Author: let me know what you think of my change :)

   Generating a new license key breaks the connection with existing business apps using the *AvaTax*
   integration. Make sure to update these apps with the new license key.

> If this will be the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this is the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made
```

with *AvaTax* and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.

If this is an additional license key, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There is
**only** one license key associated with each of the Avalara sandbox and production accounts.

.. warning::
   Copy this key to a safe place. It is strongly encouraged to back up the license key for
   future reference. This key **cannot** be retrieved after leaving this screen.

.. _accounting/avalara/credentials:

Odoo AvaTax settings
********************

> 

Reviewer 2: I would use a numbered list for all the instructions in this section (+ rephrase accordingly)

and also (and more importantly), from what I understand, you can't see the settings unless the Avatax module is installed, correct? but then we only talk about module installation in the Odoo configuration section 🙈 ... or am I missing something?

To integrate the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` with Odoo, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` section and scroll to the
:guilabel:`Taxes` section.

To activate *AvaTax* on the database, tick the checkbox to the left of the :guilabel:`AvaTax`
settings. This is a quick, convenient way to activate and deactivate *AvaTax* tax calculation on the

> Odoo database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` section and scroll to the
:guilabel:`Taxes` section, and enable :guilabel:`AvaTax`.
```
to avoid repetitions + the last sentence is really not needed imo

In the :guilabel:`Integration Method` field, select :guilabel:`Avalara Direct`.

.. image:: avalara/avalara-direct-settings.png
   :alt: Configure AvaTax settings

Next, select the :guilabel:`Environment` in which the company wishes to use *AvaTax* in. It can
either be :guilabel:`Sandbox` or :guilabel:`Production`.

Now, the credentials can be entered. The *AvaTax* :guilabel:`Account ID` should be entered in the
:guilabel:`API ID` field, and the :guilabel:`License Key` should be entered in the :guilabel:`API
Key` field.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: I'd have a bullet list for each sentence in this note

   The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the *AvaTax* portal (`sandbox

>    <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). In the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the *AvaTax* `sandbox
   <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ portal. In the
```

   upper-right corner, click on :icon:`fa-user-circle-o` :guilabel:`Account`. The :guilabel:`Account
   ID` is displayed at the top of the menu.

   Learn more about how to access the :ref:`License Key
   <accounting/avalara/direct-connect-avalara>`.

For the :guilabel:`Company Code` field, enter the Avalara company code for the company being
configured. Avalara interprets this as `DEFAULT` if it is not set. The :guilabel:`Company Code` can
be accessed in the Avalara management portal:

First, log into the *Avalara* portal (`sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). Then, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings --> All Settings` and
find the code in the :guilabel:`Company Code` column.

Test connection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After entering the :guilabel:`API ID` and :guilabel:`API KEY`, click :guilabel:`Test connection`.
This ensures the :guilabel:`API ID` and :guilabel:`API KEY` are correct, and a connection is made
between Odoo and the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)`.

Sync parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Upon finishing the configuration and settings of the *AvaTax* section, click the :guilabel:`Sync

> Parameters` button. This action synchronizes the exemption codes from *AvaTax*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Parameters` button to synchronize the exemption codes from *AvaTax*.
```

   the :ref:`configurations <accounting/avalara/odoo-configuration>` that are common to both
   *Avalara Included* and *Avalara Direct*.

.. _accounting/avalara/odoo-configuration:

Odoo configuration
==================

Regardless of which :ref:`Avalara integration <accounting/avalara/integrations>` a company uses,
there are some additional configurations in Odoo that are required before using AvaTax to ensure tax
calculations are made accurately.

.. _accounting/avalara/fiscal_country:

Fiscal country
--------------

To set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country`, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration -->
Settings`.

Under the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country` feature to :guilabel:`United
States` or :guilabel:`Canada`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations`

Company settings
----------------

All companies operating in the Odoo database should have a full and complete address listed in the
settings. Open the :guilabel:`Settings` app, and scroll to the :guilabel:`Companies` section. If
the database has only a single company, click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Update Info` to open

> a separate page to update the company details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the database has only a single company, click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Update Info` to update the company details.
```

If there are multiple companies operating in the database, click :icon:`oi-arrow-right`
:guilabel:`Manage Companies` to open a list of the database's companies. Click on each company to

> enter the company form view and update its information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there are multiple companies operating in the database, click :icon:`oi-arrow-right`
:guilabel:`Manage Companies` then click on each company in the list to update its information.
```
to focus on actionable steps and remove the rest

Ensure that the :guilabel:`Street`, :guilabel:`Street2`, :guilabel:`City`, :guilabel:`State`,
:guilabel:`ZIP`, and :guilabel:`Country` are all updated for each company. This ensures accurate tax

> calculations and smooth end-of-year accounting operations.

Reviewer 2: Could we group these 2 sentences and avoid repeating ensure 2x?

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../../general/companies`

Module installation
-------------------

Next, ensure that the Odoo *AvaTax* module is installed. To do so, open the :guilabel:`Apps` app. In
the :guilabel:`Search` bar, remove the `Apps` filter, type in `avatax`, and press :kbd:`Enter`. The
following results populate (plus additional modules related to the :doc:`Brazilian localization

> <../../fiscal_localizations/brazil>`):

Reviewer 2: the wording of this sentence seems a bit weird to me?

Author: I've updated this, let me know what you think :)

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax`
     - `account_avatax`
     - Default *AvaTax* module. This module adds the base *AvaTax* features for tax calculation.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for geo localization`
     - `account_avatax_geolocalize`
     - This module includes the features required for integration of *AvaTax* into geo-localization
       in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`
     - `account_avatax_sale`
     - Includes the information needed for tax calculation on sales orders in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for Inventory`
     - `account_avatax_stock`
     - Includes tax calculation in Odoo Inventory.
   * - :guilabel:`Amazon/Avatax Bridge`
     - `sale_amazon_avatax`
     - Includes tax calculation features between the *Amazon Connector* and Odoo.

If it has not been installed already, :ref:`install <general/install>` the module labeled

> :guilabel:`Avatax` (`account_avatax`). Doing so installs the following modules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it has not been installed already, :ref:`install <general/install>` the :guilabel:`Avatax` (`account_avatax`) module. Doing so installs the following modules:
```

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: (`account_avatax`)
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: (`account_avatax_sale`)
- :guilabel:`Avatax for Inventory`: (`account_avatax_stock`)

> Should *AvaTax* be needed for geo-localization or with the *Amazon Connector*, :ref:`install

Reviewer 2: is there a doc we could link to for the Amazon Connector?

<general/install>` those modules individually.

.. seealso::
   For additional information on the fiscal localizations themselves, view the following
   :doc:`fiscal localization <../../fiscal_localizations>` documentation:

   - :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations/canada`
   - :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations/united_states`

Transaction options
-------------------

There are two transactional settings in the :guilabel:`AvaTax` section of the Accounting settings
(:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`) that can be configured:
:guilabel:`Use UPC` and :guilabel:`Commit Transactions`.

If the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Use UPC` is ticked, the transactions will use Universal Product
Codes (UPC), instead of custom defined codes in Avalara. Consult a certified public accountant (CPA)
for specific guidance.

If the :guilabel:`Commit Transactions` checkbox is ticked, the transactions in the Odoo database

> will appear in AvaTax reports.

Reviewer 2: I'd rephrase this, something along those lines (this is just an example to illustrate what I mean, feel free to improve it, really!):

```suggestion
To configure Avatax-related transactional settings, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` and enable the relevant options in the :guilabel:`AvaTax` section: 

- :guilabel:`Use UPC`: to use Universal Product
Codes (UPC) instead of custom-defined codes in Avalara for transactions. Consult a certified public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance.
- :guilabel:`Commit Transactions`: to add the Odoo database's transactions to AvaTax reports.
```

Address validation
------------------

The *Address Validation* feature ensures that the most up-to-date address by postal standards is set
on a contact in Odoo. This is important to provide accurate tax calculations for customers.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Address Validation` feature only works with partners/customers in North America.

To enable address validation, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`,
scroll to the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, and under :guilabel:`AvaTax`, tick the checkbox next to
:guilabel:`Address Validation`.

:guilabel:`Save` the settings to display the :guilabel:`Validate` link on North American contact
records. Each contact's address must be validated individually:

To :guilabel:`Validate` an address, open to the :guilabel:`Contacts` app and select a contact. With
the :guilabel:`Address Validation` feature enabled, the :guilabel:`Validate` link appears beside the

> :guilabel:`Address`.

Reviewer 2: I'd add a screenshot to illustrate this

Click :guilabel:`Validate` to open a pop-up window with a :guilabel:`Validated Address` and
:guilabel:`Original Address` listed. If the :guilabel:`Validated Address` is the correct mailing
address for tax purposes, click :guilabel:`Save Validated`.

.. image:: avalara/address-validation.png
  :alt: Validate address pop-up window in Odoo with "Save Validated" button and "Validated

>         Address" highlighted.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this screenshot

> Fiscal positions are also used for :ref:`tax mapping <taxes/tax-mapping>`.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand why we're mentionning this here? 🙈

Author: 🙈 definitely supposed to be at the end of the next section, thanks for catching this

.. warning::
   All previously-entered addresses for contacts in the Odoo database need to be validated using the
   manual validation process outlined above. Addresses are not automatically validated if they were

>    entered previously.

Reviewer 2: so does that mean that new adresses are automatially validated? (i.e., (maybe?) addresses/contacts entered/created after the feature has been enabled?) if so, I think we should maybe mention this somewhere, maybe around lines 532-534? if not, I'm confused by this warning 🙈

.. important::
   For accurate tax calculations, it is best practice to enter a complete address for the contacts
   saved in the database. However, *AvaTax* can still function by implementing a best effort attempt
   using only the :guilabel:`Country`, :guilabel:`State`, and :guilabel:`ZIP`. These are the
   three minimum required fields.

.. _accounting/avalara/fiscal_positions:

Fiscal positions
----------------

> 

Reviewer 2: should we have a small intro to briefly explain what we're trying to do here? it's not super clear to me at this point

Author: Added, lmk what you think :)

Next, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Fiscal Positions`. A
:guilabel:`Fiscal Position` is listed named :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping (AvaTax)`. Click it to
open *AvaTax's* fiscal position configuration page.

> Here, ensure that the :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` checkbox is ticked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Fiscal Positions`, click the :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping (AvaTax)` fiscal position in the list, then ensure that :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` is enabled on the form.
```
or something similar but the phrasing was a bit odd imo

Optionally, tick the checkbox next to the field labeled: :guilabel:`Detect Automatically`. If this
option is ticked, Odoo will automatically apply this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` for transactions in
Odoo.

Enabling :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` means that this fiscal position will be
:ref:`automatically <fiscal_positions/automatic>` applied to records that match the fiscal

> position's set conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optionally, enable :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` to :ref:`automatically <fiscal_positions/automatic>` apply the fiscal position to transaction records in Odoo that match the fiscal position's set conditions.
```

.. important::
   If the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` checkbox is not ticked, each customer will need to have
   the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` set in the :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab of their contact
   record. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Contacts --> Contacts`. Then, select a contact to
   set the fiscal position on.

   Navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab, and scroll down to the section labeled
   :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`. Set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` field to the fiscal position

>    for the customer.

Reviewer 2: I would remove most of those instructions and refer to [this section of the Fiscal positions doc](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/finance/accounting/taxes/fiscal_positions.html#assign-to-a-partner) instead

```suggestion
   If the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` feature is disabled, a fiscal position must be :ref:`set for each customer <add the ref here>`. 
```
or something similar

.. seealso::
   :doc:`fiscal_positions`

AvaTax accounts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Upon selecting the checkbox option for :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` on a fiscal position, a new
:guilabel:`AvaTax` tab appears. Open this tab to display two fields: :guilabel:`AvaTax Invoice

> Account` and :guilabel:`AvaTax Refund Account`. Ensure both accounts are set for smooth end-of-year

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` has been enabled for a fiscal position, set the relevant accounts in the :guilabel:`AvaTax Invoice Account` and :guilabel:`AvaTax Refund Account` fields in the :guilabel:`AvaTax` tab to ensure smooth end-of-year
```
or something similar

record keeping. Consult a certified public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance on setting both
accounts.

AvaTax product category codes
-----------------------------

AvaTax categorizes products using product category codes to ensure that the correct taxes are
applied to each product. Before using the integration, specify an AvaTax product category code in
the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` field on product categories. Navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Configuration --> Product Categories`. Select the product category to add the product category
code to. In the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` field, select a product category code from the drop-down

> menu, or :guilabel:`Search More` to open the complete list of options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
applied to each product. Before using the integration, specify an AvaTax product category code on each product category. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Configuration --> Product Categories` and click the relevant product category. In the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` field, select a product category code from the drop-down
menu, or :guilabel:`Search More` to open the complete list of options.
```
to try and limit repetitions

.. image:: avalara/avatax-category.png

>    :alt: Specify AvaTax Category on products.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this image

AvaTax product category codes can be set on individual products, as well. To set AvaTax product
category codes on products, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Products` and
remove the default :guilabel:`Sales` filter. Select the product to add the product category code to.
In the :guilabel:`General Information` tab, set the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category`. Finally, click the
drop-down menu, and select a product category code, or :guilabel:`Search More` to find one that is

> not listed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AvaTax product category codes can also be set on individual products. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Products` and
remove the default :guilabel:`Sales` filter. Select the relevant product, then select the product category from the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` drop-down menu, or click :guilabel:`Search More` to open the complete list of options.
```

.. note::
   If both the product, and its category, have an :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` set, the product's
   :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` takes precedence.

.. image:: avalara/avatax-product.png

>    :alt: Override product categories as needed.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this image

.. important::
   Setting the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` on either the product or product category should be

>    completed for every product or product category, depending on the route that is chosen.

Reviewer 2: nitpick maybe, but could people use a mix of both actually? so it's not one or the other; I think I'd rephrase slightly to explain what we really mean here (as far as I understand at least!), which is that every product should have an avatax category, whether defined directly on the product form or through the product category the product belongs to.

(this is just me trying to explain things as I understand them, let's find a better way to say this if I'm not wrong 🙈 😉)

and if it's that important, i think we should move the admonition further up?
